---
layout: post
title: "Introduction to pyPRML project"
date: 2016-09-25
comments: true
mathjax: true
---

Thanks for visiting pyPRML blog site.

This project is dedicated to implement a python lib for *C.M.Bishop's PRML*. And in order to display and implement the vision of PRML examples, we choose iPython for convenient expression and teaching purpose. 

Bayesian method is the main and powerful way in this masterpiece. It's interesting to exploring more aspects of these work, especially under current **Deep Learning**(DL) main stream. Machine learning, or the more extended field AI, is not only about DL. Lots of algorithms can be more efficient and succinct in different fields, which is depend on the domain you’re in. And Bayesian method is one kind of nature approach of statistics to hack the problems in real life. Of course, nobody knows which way is correct or better for future. But at least, we need to give every fields one tunnel for further exploring.

According to my experience, the most efficient way to learn something is through starting up a project, which requires the knowledge that you want to learn. Human brain is lazy and feeling boring when accepting a heck of abstracted knowledge at once. It would be the least efficient when you don't know what your target is and unable to see the progress of your task. That just know how brain works. In contrary, brain likes to work with challenge, or we'd say brain's work is problem-driven. Once you get a problem with clear purpose, your brain will be filled with energy and passion. The process of gaining knowledge becomes one side effect of your task. You'd get lots of fun from finishing your own project.

After all, the purpose of learning something is for application. Project-driven gives you this reward from the first stage. And creating your own project instead of being controlled by others gives you the freedom and practice of your own creativity. You should not be restrained by other one’s opinion. You need to be bold to explore your own thinking and world. Some of technique stuff are constrained in narrow vision, because they never think abroad. They just know how to give more robust implementations and what new techniques can be used, but never think where they can use their professions and how to make the most efficient on the world. If you don’t consider your task and the reason of your behavior, you can’t give the most contributions to this world. 

Time flies. You should always work on the most important problem that you care. If you can make this world better, if you’re not devoted to figure out a way to change the mechanism of the world that you distain, the world you expected would not come automatically. And if you do agree with this but not working on the most important problem that you care, you need to ask yourself hard, why?!
